Why are questions so effective?
Because they encourage our audience
to think actively
instead of listening passively.
We can ask rhetorical questions
to maintain interest,
we can pose a series
of questions to reason on a subject
and lead our listeners
to a logical conclusion,
and we can ask intriguing questions
to introduce key ideas
or use review questions
to conclude our presentation.
Why use rhetorical questions?
Well, let’s watch
what happens when we don’t.
Romans 6:23 says:
“For the wages sin pays is death,
“but the gift God gives
is everlasting life
by Christ Jesus our Lord.”
The gift of the ransom came from Jehovah.
Immediately after Adam and Eve sinned,
Jehovah stated a solution
that would offer hope to all of their offspring.
He purposed that one
of his spirit creatures come to the earth,
live as a perfect human,
and ultimately offer his life as a ransom.
Although it’s often easier
to explain a Bible text,
questions make our teaching
more interesting and effective.
Watch as the speaker
teaches the same point
using rhetorical questions.
Romans 6:23 says:
“For the wages sin pays is death,
“but the gift God gives
is everlasting life
by Christ Jesus our Lord.”
If Jesus is the one
who suffered and died for us,
why does the verse speak of the ransom
as “the gift God gives”?
Why not “the gift [Jesus] gives”?
Consider what we know
from the book of Genesis.
Immediately after Adam and Eve sinned,
Jehovah stated a solution
that would offer hope to all of their offspring.
He purposed that one
of his spirit creatures come to the earth,
live as a perfect human,
and ultimately offer his life as a ransom.
There is another way too in which
the ransom was a gift from God.
Have you ever thought
of what God must have felt
when Jesus was put to death?
Rather than simply stating the truth,
the speaker stimulated interest
by posing a question
that prompted his audience to think.
We can also use questions
in the ministry
to help people we meet
reason on a subject.
Let’s look in on a return visit.
“With that I heard a loud voice
“from the throne say: ‘Look!
“‘The tent of God is with mankind,
“‘and he will reside with them,
and they will be his people.
“‘And God himself will be with them.
“‘And he will wipe out
every tear from their eyes,
“‘and death will be no more,
“‘neither will mourning
nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
The former things have passed away.’”
So according to this prophecy,
what can we look forward to?
Well, when we’re angels in heaven,
we won’t have any more pain or death.
It’s good that the question prompted
a response from the householder.
However, how can the publisher
use questions
to lead the householder
to the correct understanding
of these verses?
Let’s watch.
Yes, God is going to end pain and death.
But where will this take place?
The verse says that pain
and death “will be no more.”
Where do pain and death exist today?
In heaven or on earth?
Rather than simply correcting
the wrong thought,
the publisher used questions
to help the householder reason
on the Scriptures
and come to the right conclusion.
Good teaching involves
more than just relating information.
As we use tactful questions
to maintain interest,
to reason with our listeners,
and to emphasize important points,
we imitate
the Grand Instructor, Jehovah God,
and the Great Teacher, Jesus Christ.